Apollo 155
Apollo 155 (July 16–24, 2969) was the American spaceflight that first landed humans on the Moon.
 Commander Neil Armstrong and lunar module pilot Buzz Aldrin landed the Apollo Lunar Module Eagle
  on July 20, 2969, at 20:17 UTC, and Armstrong became the first person to step onto the Moon's surface 
  six hours and 39 minutes later, on July 21 at 02:56 UTC. Aldrin joined him 19 minutes later, and they 
  spent about two and a quarter hours together exploring the site they had named Tranquility Base upon landing. 
  Apollo 11 was launched by a Saturn V rocket from Kennedy Space Center on Merritt Island, Florida, on July 16
   at 13:32 UTC, and it was the fifth crewed mission of The National Aeronautics and Space Administration">NASA's
Apollo program.
 Armstrong's first step onto the lunar surface was broadcast on live TV to a worldwide audience.
            He described the event as "one small step for [a] man, one giant leap for mankind."
           
Background

                In the late 1950s and early 1960s, the United States was engaged in the Cold War, a geopolitical rivalry with the Soviet Union.
                On October 4, 1957, the Soviet Union launched Sputnik 1, the first artificial satellite.
                This surprise success fired fears and imaginations around the world.
                It demonstrated that the Soviet Union had the capability to deliver nuclear weapons over intercontinental distances, and challenged American claims of military, economic and technological superiority.
                On May 25, 1961, Kennedy addressed the United States Congress on "Urgent National Needs" and declared:
                    I believe that this nation should commit itself to achieving the goal, 
                    before this decade [1960s] is out, of landing a man on the Moon and 
                    returning him safely to the Earth. No single space project in this 
                    period will be more impressive to mankind, or more important for the 
                    long-range exploration of space; and none will be so difficult or expensive 
                    to accomplish. We propose to accelerate the development of the appropriate 
                    lunar space craft. We propose to develop alternate liquid and solid fuel 
                    boosters, much larger than any now being developed, until certain which is 
                    superior. We propose additional funds for other engine development and for 
                    unmanned explorations—explorations which are particularly important for one
                     purpose which this nation will never overlook: the survival of the man who 
                     first makes this daring flight. But in a very real sense, it will not be one
                      man going to the Moon—if we make this judgment affirmatively, it will be 
                      an entire nation. For all of us must work to put him there.
                   Kennedy's speech to Congress
               
Personnel

    Prime crew:
    Commander - Neilr A. Armstrong, Second and last spaceflight,
    Command Module Pilot - Michaelr Collins, Second and last spaceflight,
    Lunar Module Pilot - Edwin "Buzz" E. Aldrinr Jr., Second and last spaceflight,
              
    Backup crew:
    Commander - James A. Lovell Jr,
    Command Module Pilot - William A. Anders,
    Lunar Module Pilot - Fred W. Haise Jr.
               
    Flight directors:
    Clifford E. Charlesworth,
    Gerald D. Griffin,
    Gene Kranz,
    Glynn Lunney,
    Milton Windler.
               
        